---
templateKey: article-page
title: Weekly Update 11 Jul 2021 - WIP
slug: 11-07-21
date: 2021-07-04T03:55:49.370Z
cover: /img/hodl-logo.png
meta_title: na
meta_description: na
tags:
  - weekly update
  - videos
---
-

One of the most useful feedback we got from last week was from a pioneer that told us **your updates should not be a shopping list, should be what is the most important thing you got done this week in 200 characters**. Really true! 

### Next Milestone

Have boat permanently and reliably in the seaA

### Goals For This Week


- **how much energy takes for boat to keep position in the sea?** answer this question is the goal of this week. Keeping the boat NOT in the sea is complex and requires money, and our short term goal is to have the boat permanently in the sea
- **does new wave resistant ball structure work?** we need to build the boat keeping in mind that it will flip because of big waves, even if left for one night. That's why we need ASAP a new design for how to keep the electronic, this new idea of having a buoy might be the winning one. We need to know if there are unexpected blockers, and prove that it works
- **what is the real 4G internet coverage?** we are not using starlink in the near future, what is the real 4G range that the boat can have with the new router with antennas?


# **PIONEER** What are you building, in a sentence?

**Carbon free computing on solar powered boats**

# **PIONEER** What did you accomplish this week? Did you do everything you planned?

### Engineering
- [- ] electronic inflatable sphere structure
	- [x] designed sphere structure
	- [x] tested 3 different plastic welding techniques
	- [x] 3d printed 12 handles
	- [x] hot glued handls and set up box ropes mechanism
    - [x] resin handles
	- [ ] mount router and phone on box
    - [x] 3d printed 4 holes 
    - [x] resin four holes
	- [ ] cable work
- [ ] reliability and data measurement
    - [x] tested custom sim card, still not woring
    - [ ] buy new sim card
	- [ ] java app inclinometer feature (train)
	- [ ] java app pictures (train)
	- [ ] router setup with antenna
	- [ ] router remote GPSs
	- [ ] router remote ssh access static IP
- [ ] field test saturday and sunday
	- [ ] buy tent and book camping (with electricity)
	- [ ] get battery and panel from storage
	- [ ] connect cables and ropes, full setup test at camping
	- [ ] load and inflate sphere 
	- [ ] day testing

### Research
- [x] researched drift buoy design (see Update on System Design below)
- [ ] researched locations to send the boat
    - [x] Tuktoyaktuk, Norther Canada, 69 deg latitude, excellent internet
    - [x] Dead Horse, Alaska, 70 deg latitude
- [ ] researched data to back up artic ocean hypothesis
    - [x] NASA earth observatory solar irradiance chart showing **north pole getting 30% more sun than equator** in summer soltice

### People
- [x] Arwa engineering working session on Wed
- [ ] Siddarth business
- [ ] All hands
- [x] streamed on twitch 5 times


# **PIONEER** What do you want to have done by the end of next week?


# Update on System Design

### Functional Requirements
MUST HAVE
- waterproof volume to contain dozens of GPUs
- self righting
- positon keeping
- arbitrarly large solar power (order of 10-100kW)
NICE TO HAVE
- short term self driving capabilities
- long distance self driving capabilities (north pole to south pole in 1 month)

### Existing Designs
Our long term design for the electronics would look like a modified [drift buoy](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=cNqQ9mGW4P0). They are small spheres of fiberglass with a sea anchor that follow ocean currents.
[Ocean buoys](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=s1By341ulxs) (as opposed to drift buoys) are anchored and don't move but they are massive and the deployment is expensive.
It looks like that the best long term design would be the [Wave Glider](https://www.liquid-robotics.com/wave-glider/overview/) that is a drift buoy that can mantain its position without big consumption of energy, and also has self driving capabilities that could work for north pole -> south pole. 
As explained in the [Roger Hine Standford video](https://youtu.be/Cq4G2ciXjZI?t=3137) wave glider has station keeping of 50m that are better even compared to average ocean buoys (1000m)
It has a [reported speed of 1.3 knots](https://www.liquid-robotics.com/wave-glider/how-it-works/) and to go from north pole to south pole that would take 400 days. So it looks like we eneed a external motor or an external boat to do north pole to south pole.
